OBSDOCS-174 - Loki Aware Data Replication (#67358)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/logging-loki-zone-aware-rep.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging-loki.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="logging-loki-zone-aware-rep_{context}"]
= Zone aware data replication

In the {logging} 5.8 and later versions, the Loki Operator offers support for zone-aware data replication through pod topology spread constraints. Enabling this feature enhances reliability and safeguards against log loss in the event of a single zone failure. When configuring the deployment size as `1x.extra.small`, `1x.small`, or `1x.medium,` the `replication.factor` field is automatically set to 2.

> To ensure proper replication, you need to have at least as many availability zones as the replication factor specifies. While it's possible to have more availability zones than the replication factor, having fewer zones can lead to write failures. Each zone should host an equal number of instances for optimal operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure proper replication, you need to have at least as many availability zones as the replication factor specifies. While it is possible to have more availability zones than the replication factor, having fewer zones can lead to write failures. Each zone should host an equal number of instances for optimal operation.
```

.Example LokiStack CR with zone replication enabled
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: loki.grafana.com/v1
kind: LokiStack
metadata:
 name: logging-loki
 namespace: openshift-logging
spec:
 replicationFactor: 2 # <1>
 replication:
   factor: 2 # <2>
   zones:
   -  maxSkew: 1 # <3>
      topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone # <4>
----

> <1> Deprecated field, values entered will be overwritten by `replication.factor`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Deprecated field, values entered are overwritten by `replication.factor`.
```

<2> This value is automatically set when deployment size is selected at setup.
<3> The maximum difference in number of pods between any two topology domains. The default is 1, and you cannot specify a value of 0.

> <4> Defines zones in form of a topology key that corresponds to a node label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<4> Defines zones in the form of a topology key that corresponds to a node label.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * logging/cluster-logging-loki.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="logging-loki-zone-aware-rep_{context}"]
= Zone aware data replication

> In the {logging} 5.8 and later versions, the Loki Operator offers support for zone-aware data replication through pod topology spread constraints. Enabling this feature enhances reliability and safeguards against log loss in the event of a single zone failure. When configuring the deployment size as `1x.small` or `1x.medium,` the `replication.factor` field is automatically set to 2. However, replication is not included in the `1x.extra-small` size.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the {logging} 5.8 and later versions, the Loki Operator offers support for zone-aware data replication through pod topology spread constraints. Enabling this feature enhances reliability and safeguards against log loss in the event of a single zone failure. When configuring the deployment size as `1x.small` or `1x.medium,` the `replication.factor` field is automatically set to 2.
```

I suggest to remove that last mention about the `1x.extra-small` as per 5.8.0 we productized this deployment size with a default replication factor of `2`.

Author: Would make more sense to add it to the sentence prior then. I don't want to say 'all sizes' in case we add some later.

To ensure proper replication, you need to have at least as many availability zones as the replication factor specifies. While it's possible to have more availability zones than the replication factor, having fewer zones can lead to write failures. Each zone should host an equal number of instances for optimal operation.

[NOTE]
====

> Enabling replication across multiple availability zones may cause an increase in running costs.

Reviewer 2: My gut feeling tells me that users/customers will be asking what sort of running cost they will imposed too. I suggest to expand this with an example:

```suggestion
Enabling replication across multiple availability zones may cause an increase in running costs (e.g. cloud provider's cross-zone networking cost)
```
